# Set Up SAP BTP Account using Terraform – Cloud Foundry

The Terraform provider for SAP Business Technology Platform (BTP) enables you to automate the provisioning, management, and configuration of resources on&nbsp;SAP BTP. By leveraging this provider, you can simplify and streamline the deployment and maintenance of SAP BTP services and applications.

Currently, the SAP BTP provider is available in beta for non productive usage: [SAP BTP Terraform](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/SAP/btp/latest).

The Terraform script documented here automates the setup of an SAP BTP subaccount based on a predefined template. The Terraform script performs the following steps:

1. Creates a new subaccount in your enterprise global account in SAP BTP.
1. Configures the SAP BTP entitlements listed in section [Entitlements](#entitlements) below in your subaccount.
2. Enables the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry runtime and adds your SAP BTP user to the Cloud Foundry org.
3. Subscribes to SAP HANA Cloud administration tools and assigns the role collection **SAP HANA Cloud Administrator** to your SAP BTP user.
5. Adds additional dummy users to the subaccount.

### [Entitlements ](https://github.tools.sap/refapps/incidents-mgmt/blob/main/documentation/administrate/Prepare-BTP/Configure-BTP-CF.md)

| Service     |      Plan      |  Quota required |
| ------------- | :-----------: | ----: |
| Cloud Foundry Runtime     | free (Environment) | 1 |
| SAP Build Work Zone, standard edition    |  free (Application)    |   1 |
| SAP HANA Cloud |   hana-free    |    1 |
| SAP HANA Cloud |   tools (Application)   |    1 |
| SAP HANA Schemas & HDI Containers |   hdi-shared   |    1 |
| SAP Continuous Integration and Delivery |	free (Application)   |    1 |

## Deploy the resources

> **Prerequisites**
>
> - You have installed Terraform. See [Install Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli) for detailed instructions.
> - You have an enterprise global account in SAP BTP. To use services for free, you can sign up for an SAP BTPEA (SAP BTP Enterprise Agreement) or a Pay-As-You-Go for SAP BTP global account and make use of the free tier services only. See [Using Free Service Plans](https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/using-free-service-plans?version=Cloud).


1. Clone the repository `git clone https://github.com/SAP-samples/btp-terraform-samples.git` to a directory on your machine. This will create a folder **btp-terraform-samples** in your directory.
2. Open the **btp-terraform-samples/released/discovery_center/mission_4327/step1** directory.
4. Create a new file named **terraform.tfvars** and copy the content of the **samples.tfvars** file to the **terraform.tfvars** file. 
5. Make changes to the **terraform.tfvars** file:
    1. In line 5, replace `<your-global-account-subdomain>` with the subdomain of your global account. 
    2. In line 10, replace `<subaccount-region>` with the region where you want to create a subaccount.
    3. In line 11, replace `<your-subacccunt-name>` with a name that is unique within your global account.
  
  > The script uses free tier service plans by default. If you want to use it for production, you have to update the service plans in the **terraform.tfvars**  file accordingly.
  > The name of your Cloud Foundry org will be generated by appending `CF-Org` to your subaccount's name. This ensures that your Cloud Foundry org name will be unique within your global account.

6. Configure your SAP BTP credentials as environment variables. Copy the commands relevant for the shell you're using:
   
    Windows PowerShell:
    ```Powershell
      $env:BTP_USERNAME="<your-email-address>"
      $env:BTP_PASSWORD="<your-password>"
      $env:CF_USER="<your-email-address>"
      $env:CF_PASSWORD="<your-password>"
    ```
    Linux, macOS:
    ```mac OS
      export BTP_USERNAME="<your-email-address>"
      export BTP_PASSWORD="<your-password>"
      export CF_USER="<your-email-address>"
      export CF_PASSWORD="<your-password>"
    ```
6. In the terminal, navigate to the directory containing your Terraform configuration files. 

7. Run the following command to initialize and upgrade Terraform plugins:

    ```shell
    terraform init
    ```

7. Run the following command to generate an execution plan to review the changes that will be made to your SAP BTP account:

    ```shell
    terraform plan
    ```

8. Run the following command to apply the Terraform configuration to create the SAP BTP subaccount and entitlements:

    ```shell
    terraform apply
    ```

    When prompted, type `yes` to confirm the changes.

9. (Optional) Run the following command to delete the SAP BTP subaccount and associated resources after your session or project is complete:

    ```shell
    terraform destroy
    ```

    When prompted, type `yes` to confirm the resources' destruction.

    > By cleaning up, you ensure that no unwanted charges are accumulated by your SAP BTP enterprise account.

Please exercise caution when using this script, especially in production environments, and ensure you understand the resources that will be created or modified.